Canada Australia and New Zealand have
joined international calls for an
immediate humanitarian ceasefire in Gaza
in a joint statement the Nations warned
Israel of potentially catastrophic
consequences if it expanded its military
operations into Rafa Israel is planning
to move into the southern gazen city to
fulfill its stated goal of destroying
Hamas a group considered a terrorist
organization by multiple
Nations evacuating the Nasser Hospital
in canun
Palestinians carried their belongings in
sacks as they made their way out of the
complex the Israeli military said it had
opened a secure route to allow civilians
to leave the hospital while doctors and
patients could remain
inside it also said troops have been
ordered to prioritize the safety of
civilians patients medical workers and
medical facilities during the
operation this footage shot from
Southern Israel shows plumes of black
smoke rising in conun after Israeli
forces shelled the area
overnight Israel is facing growing
International pressure to hold off on a
planned assault on Rafa where more than
a million Palestinians have sought
safety during a visit to Israel
Germany's foreign minister warned Israel
against pressing its offensive into the
City 1.3 million people are stuck in a
very confined space they have nowhere
else to go at the
moment if the Israeli Army were to
launch an offensive on Rafa under these
conditions it would be a humanitarian
disaster in the
making Israel has vowed to fight on
until it eradicates Hamas and has made
the return of the last hostages held by
them a priority but Hamas says Israel
must first commit to ending the war and
withdrawing from
Gaza our correspondent Aman ISF joins us
now from Jerusalem Aman Germany is just
one of many countries warning Israel
against its planned offensive in Rafa is
there any sign Netanyahu is
listening so far there are no public
signs that Netanyahu has heeded any of
these warnings uh he said even as
analena barbach was in the country
visiting that is plans to go through
with the ground assault on uh Rafa so
perhaps behind closed doors there are
some signs that uh Israel is heeding the
warnings that it could have already uh
staged an assault on Rafa uh but
publicly Israel has been uh very defiant
one of the conditions that uh Germany
put forward in order to support um the
ground uh assault on Rafa was uh that
more humanitarian Aid be brought into
Gaza well uh just yesterday the far
rightwing of Israel's already right-wing
government succeeded in blocking a
massive shipment of Aid uh into Gaza
that contained about uh enough food to
feed a million gazans for a month much
needed supplies in the dire conditions
in Rafa but it's not getting into Gaza
and this is even as Germany and the US
are urging uh this Aid to get into Gaza
before any assault on Rafa happens yeah
Rafa of course gaza's main Lifeline at
this point I mean why does Netanyahu
want to press ahead with this offensive
on
Rafa netanyahu's stated goals from the
beginning of this war which began with a
Hamas attack uh that really shocked the
nation was to completely obliterate
Hamas uh and nothing has stood in
Israel's way uh so far I think Netanyahu
believes that fail failing to uh
essentially destroy Rafa the last real
standing City in Gaza uh would show a
sign of weakness and it has to be noted
that after the shock of the terror
attacks on October 7th Israelis uh the
public is very supportive of this war
there's little concern for what's
happening in Gaza to the civilians there
so Netanyahu is not facing any pressure
from his population despite uh the
protests there are a minority of
Israelis are very concerned but the vast
majority H are supporting netan 100% and
it also should be noted that the
warnings that come from Germany and
Alena Beach just yesterday saying that
uh Israel should hold off on this ground
assault on Rafa as well as warnings from
the US they don't have any teeth behind
them just as the diplomats are telling
Netanyahu to be careful uh these
countries are sending massive weapons
shipments to Israel just earlier this
week the US approved a multi-billion
dollar military aid package to Israel
and Germany's government is currently
discussing shending sending tank shells
uh to Israel which of course could be
used in any ground assault on Rafa does
DWS I mean ESV and Jerusalem thank you
so
much